We had a look at background size,
now let's position the image
and as I said, we can do it as with background position. Background position has a couple of ways of using
it,
the simplest usage is to define a pixel value, let's say 20 pixels.
If we do that and we reload,
what we can see is that the image is moved to the right by 20 pixels.
The first value defines the x-axis,
it defines how the left edge of the image should be positioned relative to the left edge of the surrounding
container
and if we set 20 pixels, this means the left edge of the image,
so here where the image ends should be positioned 20 pixels to the left edge of the container,
so there is an empty space of 20 pixels. We can also define a second value of let's say 50 pixels,
this is now the same for the top edge of the image and the top edge of the container.
Now there is some whitespace at the top too.
Now we can also use percentage values, for example we can set 10%,
now the result might surprise you. If you reload,
actually there's no whitespace on the left because this now actually works a bit different, with
the percentage values,
you can define how much of the excess space,
so of the parts of the image that do not make it into the container,
how these parts should be distributed.
Now regarding the width, the full image is displayed in the container, it's not cropped on either the left
or the right,
so we can enter whatever we want here for the first value,
it will not change the way the image is displayed.
So let's set it to 0% which means the left part of the excess space, of which we have none
is perfectly aligned to the left edge of the container,
however this becomes clearer if we also set the top. The second value now again refers to the y-axis
and if we set 10% here, this means that 10% of our excess space should actually go over
the top. If we reload,
this will actually lead to our image being pushed down because and that's something you have to know, the
default if you only set one value, is 50%.
So if I set 50 and I reload, we get the exact same result as if we said no second value at all. 50%
means of the parts of the image that do not fit into the container, so that are cropped of, 50% will
be cropped at the bottom and 50% will be cropped at the top.
If we set this to 10%, only 10% will be cropped at the top which means that more parts
are cropped at the bottom, so the image is effectively pushed down in its container.
If we set this to 100% on the other hand, all the content that has to be cropped will be cropped at
the top and nothing will be cropped at the bottom,
so this results in the bottom edge of the image being perfectly aligned to the bottom edge of the container
and everything is cropped at the top.
This is how you can control the positioning.
Now manually setting this is possible
but there also is a predefined value, center,
it's the same as if you set 50%, 50%.
So if you set center, it's perfectly centered because it means of the parts of the image that do
not fit into the container, no matter if it's on the y or x-axis,
50% will be cropped on the left and right and top and bottom, so that the center of the image
is the center of the container.
You can also set this to left top for example,
this means that the left part of the image, the left edge of the image is positioned on the left edge of
the container,
so no cropping happens on the left and that the top of the image is aligned to the top of the container,
so no cropping at the top.
This could be translated with 0% 0%.
So if we save this, we actually see no rocks at all, we see all the sky. On the other hand, we can set
this to left bottom to say left should be aligned and bottom,
so now we will see all the rocks but less sky because no cropping is happening at the bottom and you
can even combine that with percentage values,
so you could say to the left we want to crop 10%, to the bottom
we want to crop 20% for example,
now we will see some rocks but a little bit less, it's moved down a bit and this gives you full control over
how you position your image.
Now for our page here, I think this setting is actually quite nice,
so I will stick to that.
Now there is more you can set up regarding the background,
so let's dive into the additional properties you can set in the next lecture.